docker/g44.md, before:

---
title: Make Toolchains with Docker
date: 2019-03-19
nav: make toolchains with docker
tags: [docker, cheatsheet, develop, toolchain, gcc44]
weight: 50
---

## install g++-4.4 on centos6

```bash
# centos6 g++ is 4.4.7, 64-bit only
yum -y install gcc-c++ libstdc++-devel glibc-devel

# 32bit support on 64bit system
yum -y install glibc-devel.i686 libstdc++-devel.i686
# centos5
#  yum -y install glibc-devel.i386 libstdc++-devel.i386
# debian
#  apt-get install g++-multilib libc6-dev-i386

# m4 is required for lots of autoconfig packages
yum -y install m4
```


Dockerfile used to build the image
```bash
FROM centos:6

RUN yum -y install gcc-c++ glibc-devel libstdc++-devel glibc-devl.i686 libstdc++-devel.i686 m4

```
or from centos 5
```bash
FROM astj/centos5-vault

RUN yum -y install gcc44 gcc44-c++ glibc-devel libstdc++44-devel glibc-devl.i386 libstdc++44-devel.i386 m4
```

```bash
cd ~/docker/d-cen6g44 # working folder to run docker build
ls
Dockerfile
docker build --tag=cen6g44 .
docker images ls
REPOSITORY                         TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
cen6g44                            latest              f74030d0927a        5 seconds ago       327MB
centos                             6                   d0957ffdf8a2        5 days ago          194MB

```

```cpp
// bit.cpp
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main()
{
    int a;
    cout << "sizeof(int)=" << sizeof(int)
         << " sizeof(long)=" << sizeof(long)
         << " sizeof(long long)=" << sizeof(long long)
         << " sizeof(void*)=" << sizeof(void*)
         << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

```bash
g++ -o b bit.cpp
g++ -o b32 -m32 bit.cpp
```


## install python2.7 on centos6

Default python on CentOS6 is 2.6.6.

```bash
# some devel modules (mostly heads) are required to build python from source
# about 77MB are added after installation.
# note: tk(tk-devel), imageop(?), sunaudiodev(?) are not wildly required
yum install zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel

# go to the working folder $WKS
cd $WKS
curl https://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.16/Python-2.7.16.tgz -o Python-2.7.16.tgz

# use wget if curl is not available
tar xzf Python-2.7.16.tgz
cd Python-2.7.16
./configure --enable-optimizations

# use altinstall to prevent replacing the default python
# the install size will be about 117MB
make altinstall
cd ..
rm -rf Python-2.7.16*

# check version installed
/usr/local/bin/python2.7 --version

# pip
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python2.7 get-pip.py

# ....
# add 194MB in total

Python build finished, but the necessary bits to build these modules were not found:
_bsddb             _curses            _curses_panel   
_sqlite3           _ssl               _tkinter        
bsddb185           bz2                dbm             
dl                 gdbm               imageop         
readline           sunaudiodev        zlib            

```

To find the necessary bits, look in setup.py in detect_modules() for the module's name.

```bash
# Start by making sure your system is up-to-date:
# sudo yum update
# sudo yum install yum-utils
# sudo yum groupinstall development
# Libraries needed during compilation to enable all features of Python:
# yum install zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel tk-devel gdbm-devel db4-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel
yum install zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel


# (77mb for xxx-devel)

# pip to manage Python packages,and some development packages.
sudo yum install python36u-pip
sudo yum install python36u-devel
```

After update, run make again:
```bash
#...
Python build finished, but the necessary bits to build these modules were not found:
_bsddb             _tkinter           bsddb185        
dl                 imageop            sunaudiodev     
To find the necessary bits, look in setup.py in detect_modules() for the module's name.
```



### Get pip
```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python2.7 get-pip.py
```


## Install Perl

Perl is not contained by default on centos6 docker. Several utilities requires perl.

```bash
yum -y install perl
```


## The FAT agent

The FAT version contains python 2.7 and perl 5.10

```bash
ROM cen6g44

RUN yum -y install perl zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel \
 && curl https://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.16/Python-2.7.16.tgz -o Python-2.7.16.tgz \
 && tar xzf Python-2.7.16.tgz \
 && cd Python-2.7.16 \
 && ./configure --enable-optimizations \
 && make altinstall \
 && cd .. \
 && rm -rf Python-2.7.16* \
 && yum -y remove zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel
```

To build it
```bash
docker build -t agent44 .
```

The size of the two versions are
```bash
jzou@debian9:~/docker/agent44$ docker images
REPOSITORY               TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED              SIZE
agent44                  latest              46985c8a286a        About a minute ago   533MB
cen6g44                  latest              31e4edf89146        3 months ago         327MB
```

Commit message:

add: postgres by docker; hugo bundle page; mod: docker toolchain for old distro; centos-vault shortcuts

docker/g44.md, after:

---
title: Make Toolchains with Docker
date: 2019-03-19
nav: make toolchains with docker
tags: [docker, cheatsheet, develop, toolchain, gcc44]
weight: 50
---

## Tips

* The latest open-ssl (e.g. v1.1.0 at write time) is not supported by old distro (e.g. centos5), so it is wise to download (src) modules into the working folder before running docker build instead of doing so in Dockerfile if openssl is used (e.g. by curl).
* Docker command ``ADD`` expends tar/gz files automatically, so **DO NOT** run ``tar`` or ``ungzip`` to extract archieves.


## install g++-4.4 on centos6

```bash
# centos6 g++ is 4.4.7, 64-bit only
yum -y install gcc-c++ libstdc++-devel glibc-devel

# 32bit support on 64bit system
yum -y install glibc-devel.i686 libstdc++-devel.i686
# centos5
#  yum -y install glibc-devel.i386 libstdc++-devel.i386
# debian
#  apt-get install g++-multilib libc6-dev-i386

# m4 is required for lots of autoconfig packages
yum -y install m4
```


Dockerfile used to build the image
```bash
FROM centos:6

RUN yum -y install gcc-c++ glibc-devel libstdc++-devel glibc-devl.i686 libstdc++-devel.i686 m4

```
or from centos 5
```bash
FROM astj/centos5-vault

RUN yum -y install gcc44 gcc44-c++ glibc-devel libstdc++44-devel glibc-devl.i386 libstdc++44-devel.i386 m4
```

```bash
cd ~/docker/d-cen6g44 # working folder to run docker build
ls
Dockerfile
docker build --tag=cen6g44 .
docker images ls
REPOSITORY                         TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
cen6g44                            latest              f74030d0927a        5 seconds ago       327MB
centos                             6                   d0957ffdf8a2        5 days ago          194MB

```

```cpp
// bit.cpp
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main()
{
    int a;
    cout << "sizeof(int)=" << sizeof(int)
         << " sizeof(long)=" << sizeof(long)
         << " sizeof(long long)=" << sizeof(long long)
         << " sizeof(void*)=" << sizeof(void*)
         << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

```bash
g++ -o b bit.cpp
g++ -o b32 -m32 bit.cpp
```


## install python2.7 on centos6

Default python on CentOS6 is 2.6.6.

```bash
# some devel modules (mostly heads) are required to build python from source
# about 77MB are added after installation.
# note: tk(tk-devel), imageop(?), sunaudiodev(?) are not wildly required
yum install zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel

# go to the working folder $WKS
cd $WKS
curl https://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.16/Python-2.7.16.tgz -o Python-2.7.16.tgz

# use wget if curl is not available
tar xzf Python-2.7.16.tgz
cd Python-2.7.16
./configure --enable-optimizations

# use altinstall to prevent replacing the default python
# the install size will be about 117MB
make altinstall
cd ..
rm -rf Python-2.7.16*

# check version installed
/usr/local/bin/python2.7 --version

# pip
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python2.7 get-pip.py

# ....
# add 194MB in total

Python build finished, but the necessary bits to build these modules were not found:
_bsddb             _curses            _curses_panel   
_sqlite3           _ssl               _tkinter        
bsddb185           bz2                dbm             
dl                 gdbm               imageop         
readline           sunaudiodev        zlib            

```

To find the necessary bits, look in setup.py in detect_modules() for the module's name.

```bash
# Start by making sure your system is up-to-date:
# sudo yum update
# sudo yum install yum-utils
# sudo yum groupinstall development
# Libraries needed during compilation to enable all features of Python:
# yum install zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel tk-devel gdbm-devel db4-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel
yum install zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel


# (77mb for xxx-devel)

# pip to manage Python packages,and some development packages.
sudo yum install python36u-pip
sudo yum install python36u-devel
```

After update, run make again:
```bash
#...
Python build finished, but the necessary bits to build these modules were not found:
_bsddb             _tkinter           bsddb185        
dl                 imageop            sunaudiodev     
To find the necessary bits, look in setup.py in detect_modules() for the module's name.
```



### Get pip
```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python2.7 get-pip.py
```


## Install Perl

Perl is not contained by default on centos6 docker. Several utilities requires perl.

```bash
yum -y install perl
```


## The FAT agent

The FAT version contains python 2.7 and perl 5.10

```bash
ROM cen6g44

RUN yum -y install perl zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel \
 && curl https://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.16/Python-2.7.16.tgz -o Python-2.7.16.tgz \
 && tar xzf Python-2.7.16.tgz \
 && cd Python-2.7.16 \
 && ./configure --enable-optimizations \
 && make altinstall \
 && cd .. \
 && rm -rf Python-2.7.16* \
 && yum -y remove zlib-devel bzip2-devel openssl-devel ncurses-devel sqlite-devel readline-devel gdbm-devel libpcap-devel xz-devel expat-devel
```

To build it
```bash
docker build -t agent44 .
```

The size of the two versions are
```bash
jzou@debian9:~/docker/agent44$ docker images
REPOSITORY               TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED              SIZE
agent44                  latest              46985c8a286a        About a minute ago   533MB
cen6g44                  latest              31e4edf89146        3 months ago         327MB
```
